---
layout: post
title: HTOS Highlights
---
Out of all the ideas in Richard's "How to Open Source" that we read over the course of this summer, I find non-violent communication to be a very interesting idea that I want to apply to my own communication. There are many times that I end up regretting the things I say online or believe that what I communicated was not exactly aligned with my intentions. That is why I feel drawn towards the ideas that form the basis of non-violent communication. Non-violent communication clearly communicates your intentions and thoughts to the other party. It encourages everyone to lay their intentions and motivations clearly instead of expecting that other people can parse their standpoint and arguments from what they post. This is very helpful for me since I don't want to be discouraged out of joining a conversation that I am genuinely interested in because the original point was lost in a sea of arguments. Right now, I'm trying to implement non-violent communication into my regular communication through practical use. When I'm communicating with the p5.js community, I try to refer to the principles of non-violent communication to make sure that my communication follows my intent.

In our conversations, when Richard mentioned working like people can see my code, I assumed that he was talking about working on code as if other people can see and judge your code would encourage the programmer to create the best product they can. At least, that is how I feel. Knowing that someone might see my code would push me to add an additional level of rigor to my coding. As a matter of personal pride, I would rather take the time to improve my code rather than show a faulty one. Knowing another person might review my code is, even if I know that it may be a passing glance most of the time, definitely encourages me to make the code I present the best version it could be. It definitely changes how I write code. It would make me more thorough in testing code and encourage me to think of ways to improve my code.

What I have learned over the course of this summer greatly contrasts my previous assumptions about professional coders. For a long time, I assumed that professional coders were knowledgable about every facet of their field. Of course, I realize that there was a problem solving aspect of the job; however, I thought it was about applying the skills they already have. My experiences in this program have thoroughly shattered my naivete in this matter. Over the course of this summer, I have begun to realize that being a programmer means encountering problems that you haven't the faintest idea about where to start and slowly work towards finding solution that works within your current situation. Over the course of the Catalyst program, I have learned so much about tools that the community uses. I have gotten familiar with GitHub, learned more about command line tools,  and I am still learning more about tools that developers use in their job. There is still much I have to learn, but I realize now that this is just another aspect in the field of software development and Computer Science in general.
