---
layout: post
title: OpenSSF Scorecard Review
---

OpenSSF Scorecard is a security audit tool that scores the security of a project. It can be used to assess security risks in a project and allows maintainers to see where they need to improve their project’s security. As of today, there are 112 contributors that have contributed to this project. This project is very active for its size, with there being commits being made to the repository every day. To begin participating in this project, the first thing I would do is to go to their Slack channel and introduce myself. After introducing myself, I would ask the members about what they are currently working on and find where I can start contributing. In the meantime, I would install Go, the main language the project is written in, and try to learn what I can about Go through the documentation available for it and videos I can find about it. In the docs folder, there is a markdown file that documents the designs of the project called scalable_scorecard.md under the design folder. To report a bug or request a feature to the project, use the issue feature on GitHub. Currently, there are quite a few open requests, though very few are being worked on. Many of the issue reports are individuals who are having a difficult time using the tool and are easily helped by a contributor without needing to do additional coding. To install this project, it would probably take around 30-40 minutes to fully install its prerequisites, then the project itself. To communicate with the developers, you can find the links to their google forum on their GitHub homepage. They also have a biweekly Zoom meeting on Thursdays and a Slack community. The most interesting thing to take away from this exercise is how this small project still has a loyal group of developers still working on it, despite its main feature being finished. There are still members of the community who still help new users troubleshoot issues and respond to issue reports, when by all means, the developers could have left to other projects. It makes me wonder whether most projects are like this or if this kind of treatment is only for projects that have carved out a niche in the community.
