---
layout: post
title: Some Open Source Advice
---
Today, I read the first chapter of 'Open Advice', a book collaboratively written by open source contributors and creators that contains advice on contributing and creating open source projects. In the first chapter, written by Armijin Hemel, it illustrates the reality of starting an open source project. The author relays his experience in beginning an open source project to create a presentation program with an enhanced aspect of existing presentation programs. The author elaborates further about how lackluster the project was. The project was loosely constructed, with the only existing artifact being an idea. The author had hoped to build the program from the ground up collaboratively, from the basic structure all the way to the finished product. However, the project never got its wings. It was abandoned and forgotten without ever having a single line of code to its name. 

The most important takeaway from this recounting is that any project, no matter how great an idea it is based on, must have some amount of product before anyone really has an interest in working on it. If it is on the internet, people will find it and at least one person will be interested in adding to it. Therefore, it is of utmost importance to have some sort of tangible artifact before expecting others to contribute to it. To put it to an analogy, it would be comparable to building a city from scratch. You can plan how it all out on paper, but without the first building or two, no one will be willing to move to your city. It does not matter what you planned, if you had a layout of every building and every road, if you figured out how you will govern the city, or if you planned for the the city to focus on one thing; if you don't have that first house, what everyone else will think is that it's a great idea and they'll comeback when you actually have something. Basically, generating interest is great and all, but for an open source project to become a success, it must have a tangible basis for others to work off of. Someone has to take the initiative to create something. Otherwise, it will forever languish in designs lost in sea of thoughts that makes up the internet.

Why did you choose this chapter?
I chose this chapter out of interest of the title. 'Code First' was just a bit too extract, so I wanted to figure out its meaning. I feel that this advice is great for someone interested in creating an open source project; however, it is not relevant to me. Right now, I have no interest in creating something, nor do I have any plans on starting anything at the moment.

If I were to give advice to a person just starting in open source like I was at the beginning of this summer, it would be to focus on learning the basics of open source first before jumping into actively contributing to project. As a first step in being 'productively lost', it would be best observe and learn from other open source projects before finding a few that align with your interests. It is fine to just bounce around and do a few documentation or minor code changes in the first few weeks or even months when you first get started. Everyone learns at their own pace and not everyone can find something that interests them immediately. Don't get discouraged and keep going at it! And, most importantly, don't think too much about it. You are already offering your free time and resources to contribute to a community, so there's no need to fret and worry about anything. In the end, no one can fault you about how you use your time.
