---
layout: post
title: Goals Checkin
---
Sorry for the late update. I know I said I was going to update this every 3 days or so, but it slipped my mind to do it as of late. Right now, I am contributing to the p5.js project by going over the documentation and proofreading for errors. I looked over their contributor docs and made a corrected a few minor typos. I also helped open an issue discussing a clarification for the workflow for correcting the documentation by helping draft a discussion our group opened to the community. 

Over the course of the last two weeks since we decided engaging with p5.js, I have learned a lot about working and interacting with a community. The things that I learned the most about were on the importance of workflows and the importance of clear and concise documentation. The workflow of p5.js is a bit complicated, requiring additional checks rather than committing changes upstream immediately like our group has done until now, but I realized on further inspection that it is a good gateway measure to ensure that the changes being made upstream are purposeful, useful, and relevant to the project. Additionally, I also learned the usefulness of documentation as a resource through my time working in p5.js. I have experienced a bit of confusion at times because of unclear or confusing wording, making me unsure about the exact meaning of something in the documentation. Take, for example, our latest interaction in the community: a question about the workflow for contributing to documentation. We were confused about whether or not we had to open an issue on GitHub first before any change or how big a change had to be to be called a 'small fix' because, in our eyes, the documentation was contradictory in its language as they had encouraged opening an issue for documentation errors yet encouraged just fixing a small typo. Our current objective of making the documentation clearer will allow future contributors to better understand how to contribute to the documentation and better engage with the p5.js project.

I hope to make some minor contributions to the p5.js code at the very least. I know that two weeks is not enough time to develop anything too complex; however, I will keep a lookout for something small that I can call my own contribution. And if I don't get any code done, I am fine with that too. Honestly, it has been a really cool experience getting to see and work with an open source project like p5.js. I will still have gained a lot from my experience even if none of the code I write doesn't make it into the project.

There has not been much progress towards the initial goal I set for myself for improving my communication skills. I have learned a bit about non-confrontational communication and I am starting to notice flaws in my own communication as a result of it. I am trying to make an active effort in keeping my communication as polite and non-personal as possible.

I need to be more proactive in communicating in the community and create more time to engage with the p5.js community on my own time. In order to achieve that, it is necessary that I create time for this sort of activity, even if it is just a few minutes every day just observing the chats.

There's not much I expect our group coordinator, Emily, to do about this. The most I want is more opportunities to engage with the community. For me, the most important thing to do is to engage with the community on my own time and of my own volition.
